## Python 1
Monday, December 11th 2023<BR>

### **Two-dimensional Lists**

**AIM:** In what ways can we leverage two-dimensional lists to develop programs?

**OUTCOME ALIGNMENT:**

<ins>IEC.TYS63T.3</ins>: Write and analyze programs in relation to **control flow**.
<br><ins>IEC.TYS63T.4</ins> Wirte and analyze programs in relation to **data collections**.

**SUCCESS CRITERIA:**

- [ ] I can generate two-dimensional lists (i.e. lists of lists).
- [ ] I can reference elements in a two-dimensional list (including sub-lists or elements of sub-lists).
- [ ] I can display two-dimensional lists (in both list and grid format).
- [ ] I can apply control flow techniques develop programs that involve two-dimensional lists.
- [ ] I can articulate the ways in which two-dimensional lists can be extended to multi-dimensional lists.
        
##

**DO NOW:**  

**Load up your virtual environment.  While it is loading up...**

1. On paper, write down two related lists.
    * Example 1/ Your first list might be the list of ingredients for one recipe.  Your second list might be the ingredients for a different recipe.
    * Example 2/ Your first list might be the list of assignments in one class.  Your second list might be the list of assignments in a different class.
    * Example 3/ Your first list might be the list of students in one club.  Your second list might be the list of students in a different club.
2. Write down a third list that is also related to the first two.
3. Circle one entire list.
4. Circle one element in any of your 3 lists.
   
**AGENDA:**  

* Two-dimensional lists in real life.
* Generating two dimensional lists (element by element). (code-along)
* Referencing elements in two-dimensional lists. (code-along)
* Using control flow to display two-dimensional lists. (code-along)
* Using control flow to generate, and modify two-dimensional lists. (code-along)
* Multi-dimensional lists. (interactive lecture)
  

**HOMEWORK:** Module 3 Quiz (Note: This quiz and the subsequent test integrate questions about both control flow and lists.)

##

**REFERENCE:**

|Code|Description|
|--|--|
|`my_list[i][j]`|References the element in row `i`, column `j` of `my_list`|

**READING:** https://edube.org > Python Essentials 1 > 3.7.1.1 - 3.7.1.7
